docs/pages/tutorials/emojimon/map-and-terrain.mdx, before:

# Map and terrain

**In this section, we will accomplish the following:**

1. Configure the map as a singleton table and initialize it in the client.
2. Add terrain (tall grass and boulders) to the map.
3. Prevent movement with boulders.

## 2.1 Use singleton tables for the map config

At this point we have the concept of a 2D grid but there is no official "map" and there is no terrain. In order to do so in the ECS model we will now implement the tables as a [singleton table](/store/advanced-features#singleton-table) and initialize it in the client. Put simply, singleton tables are tables with a single record. They don’t have keys and are quite useful to store top-level state.

```tsx
import { mudConfig } from "@latticexyz/world/register";

export default mudConfig({
  enums: {
    TerrainType: ["None", "TallGrass", "Boulder"],
  },
  tables: {
    MapConfig: {
      keySchema: {},
      dataStruct: false,
      schema: {
        width: "uint32",
        height: "uint32",
        terrain: "bytes",
      },
    },
    Movable: "bool",
    Player: "bool",
    Position: {
      dataStruct: false,
      schema: {
        x: "uint32",
        y: "uint32",
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## 2.2 Add terrain

There are two features we have yet to implement—boulders to obstruct movement and tall grass to generate encounters. Before we start setting up the components and systems necessary to do so we must first add the terrain itself and render them in the client.

```tsx
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity >=0.8.0;

import { Script } from "forge-std/Script.sol";
import { console } from "forge-std/console.sol";
import { IWorld } from "../src/codegen/world/IWorld.sol";
import { MapConfig, Obstruction, Position } from "../src/codegen/Tables.sol";
import { TerrainType } from "../src/codegen/Types.sol";

contract PostDeploy is Script {
  function run(address worldAddress) external {
    console.log("Deployed world: ", worldAddress);
    IWorld world = IWorld(worldAddress);

    uint256 deployerPrivateKey = vm.envUint("PRIVATE_KEY");
    vm.startBroadcast(deployerPrivateKey);

    TerrainType O = TerrainType.None;
    TerrainType T = TerrainType.TallGrass;
    TerrainType B = TerrainType.Boulder;

    TerrainType[20][20] memory map = [
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, T, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O],
      [O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, T, O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, B, O, O],
      [O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, B, O, O, T, O, B, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, O, O, O, O, T, T, T, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, T, T, O, B, T, O, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, B, O, O, O, B, O, O, T, T, O, B, O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, B, O, O, O, T, O, T, T, O, O, B, T, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, B, O, T, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, B, O, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, B, B, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, T, B, O, O, O, T, T, O, B, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, T, O, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O]
    ];

    uint32 height = uint32(map.length);
    uint32 width = uint32(map[0].length);
    bytes memory terrain = new bytes(width * height);

    for (uint32 y = 0; y < height; y++) {
      for (uint32 x = 0; x < width; x++) {
        TerrainType terrainType = map[y][x];
        if (terrainType == TerrainType.None) continue;

        terrain[(y * width) + x] = bytes1(uint8(terrainType));
      }
    }

    MapConfig.set(world, width, height, terrain);

    vm.stopBroadcast();
  }
}
```

```tsx
import { useComponentValue } from "@latticexyz/react";
import { GameMap } from "./GameMap";
import { useMUD } from "./MUDContext";
import { useKeyboardMovement } from "./useKeyboardMovement";
import { hexToArray } from "@latticexyz/utils";
import { TerrainType, terrainTypes } from "./terrainTypes";

export const GameBoard = () => {
  useKeyboardMovement();

  const {
    components: { MapConfig, Player, Position },
    network: { playerEntity, singletonEntity },
    systemCalls: { spawn },
  } = useMUD();

  const canSpawn = useComponentValue(Player, playerEntity)?.value !== true;

  const playerPosition = useComponentValue(Position, playerEntity);
  const player =
    playerEntity && playerPosition
      ? {
          x: playerPosition.x,
          y: playerPosition.y,
          emoji: "🤠",
          entity: playerEntity,
        }
      : null;

  const mapConfig = useComponentValue(MapConfig, singletonEntity);
  if (mapConfig == null) {
    throw new Error("map config not set or not ready, only use this hook after loading state === LIVE");
  }

  const { width, height, terrain: terrainData } = mapConfig;
  const terrain = Array.from(hexToArray(terrainData)).map((value, index) => {
    const { emoji } = value in TerrainType ? terrainTypes[value as TerrainType] : { emoji: "" };
    return {
      x: index % width,
      y: Math.floor(index / width),
      emoji,
    };
  });

  return (
    <GameMap
      width={width}
      height={height}
      terrain={terrain}
      onTileClick={canSpawn ? spawn : undefined}
      players={player ? [player] : []}
    />
  );
};
```

## 2.3 Turn boulders into obstructions

Although boulders are now rendering on the map at this point, they do not yet prevent movement in the way we want them to. To accomplish this we will add an `Obstruction` component and query for entities with that component in our move method.

Let's start by adding the component:

```tsx
import { mudConfig } from "@latticexyz/world/register";

export default mudConfig({
  enums: {
    TerrainType: ["None", "TallGrass", "Boulder"],
  },
  tables: {
    MapConfig: {
      keySchema: {},
      dataStruct: false,
      schema: {
        width: "uint32",
        height: "uint32",
        terrain: "bytes",
      },
    },
    Movable: "bool",
    Obstruction: "bool",
    Player: "bool",
    Position: {
      dataStruct: false,
      schema: {
        x: "uint32",
        y: "uint32",
      },
    },
  },
});
```

We'll then make sure `PostDeploy.s.sol` initializes the boulders properly (with the obstruction and position component) so we can query them later.

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity >=0.8.0;

import { Script } from "forge-std/Script.sol";
import { console } from "forge-std/console.sol";
import { IWorld } from "../src/codegen/world/IWorld.sol";
import { MapConfig, Obstruction, Position } from "../src/codegen/Tables.sol";
import { TerrainType } from "../src/codegen/Types.sol";
import { positionToEntityKey } from "../src/positionToEntityKey.sol";

contract PostDeploy is Script {
  function run(address worldAddress) external {
    console.log("Deployed world: ", worldAddress);
    IWorld world = IWorld(worldAddress);

    uint256 deployerPrivateKey = vm.envUint("PRIVATE_KEY");
    vm.startBroadcast(deployerPrivateKey);

    TerrainType O = TerrainType.None;
    TerrainType T = TerrainType.TallGrass;
    TerrainType B = TerrainType.Boulder;

    TerrainType[20][20] memory map = [
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, T, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O],
      [O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, T, O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, B, O, O],
      [O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, B, O, O, T, O, B, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, O, O, O, O, T, T, T, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, T, T, O, B, T, O, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, B, O, O, O, B, O, O, T, T, O, B, O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, B, O, O, O, T, O, T, T, O, O, B, T, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, B, O, T, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, B, O, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, B, B, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, T, B, O, O, O, T, T, O, B, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, T, O, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O]
    ];

    uint32 height = uint32(map.length);
    uint32 width = uint32(map[0].length);
    bytes memory terrain = new bytes(width * height);

    for (uint32 y = 0; y < height; y++) {
      for (uint32 x = 0; x < width; x++) {
        TerrainType terrainType = map[y][x];
        if (terrainType == TerrainType.None) continue;

        terrain[(y * width) + x] = bytes1(uint8(terrainType));

        bytes32 entity = positionToEntityKey(x, y);
        if (terrainType == TerrainType.Boulder) {
          Position.set(world, entity, x, y);
          Obstruction.set(world, entity, true);
        }
      }
    }

    MapConfig.set(world, width, height, terrain);

    vm.stopBroadcast();
  }
}
```

Then let's use this function in the move method and spawn method.

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity >=0.8.0;
import { System } from "@latticexyz/world/src/System.sol";
import { MapConfig, Movable, Obstruction, Player, Position } from "../codegen/Tables.sol";
import { addressToEntityKey } from "../addressToEntityKey.sol";
import { positionToEntityKey } from "../positionToEntityKey.sol";

contract MapSystem is System {
  function spawn(uint32 x, uint32 y) public {
    bytes32 player = addressToEntityKey(address(_msgSender()));
    require(!Player.get(player), "already spawned");

    // Constrain position to map size, wrapping around if necessary
    (uint32 width, uint32 height, ) = MapConfig.get();
    x = (x + width) % width;
    y = (y + height) % height;

    bytes32 position = positionToEntityKey(x, y);
    require(!Obstruction.get(position), "this space is obstructed");

    Player.set(player, true);
    Position.set(player, x, y);
    Movable.set(player, true);
  }

  function move(uint32 x, uint32 y) public {
    bytes32 player = addressToEntityKey(_msgSender());
    require(Movable.get(player), "cannot move");

    (uint32 fromX, uint32 fromY) = Position.get(player);
    require(distance(fromX, fromY, x, y) == 1, "can only move to adjacent spaces");

    bytes32 position = positionToEntityKey(x, y);
    require(!Obstruction.get(position), "this space is obstructed");

    // Constrain position to map size, wrapping around if necessary
    (uint32 width, uint32 height, ) = MapConfig.get();
    x = (x + width) % width;
    y = (y + height) % height;

    Position.set(player, x, y);
  }

  function distance(uint32 fromX, uint32 fromY, uint32 toX, uint32 toY) internal pure returns (uint32) {
    uint32 deltaX = fromX > toX ? fromX - toX : toX - fromX;
    uint32 deltaY = fromY > toY ? fromY - toY : toY - fromY;
    return deltaX + deltaY;
  }
}
```

Lastly, let's ensure these interactions are optimistically rendering.

```tsx
export function createSystemCalls(
  { playerEntity, singletonEntity, worldSend, txReduced$ }: SetupNetworkResult,
  { MapConfig, Obstruction, Player, Position }: ClientComponents
) {
  const wrapPosition = (x: number, y: number) => {
    const mapConfig = getComponentValue(MapConfig, singletonEntity);
    if (!mapConfig) {
      throw new Error("mapConfig no yet loaded or initialized");
    }
    return [
      (x + mapConfig.width) % mapConfig.width,
      (y + mapConfig.height) % mapConfig.height,
    ];
  };

  const isObstructed = (x: number, y: number) => {
    return runQuery([Has(Obstruction), HasValue(Position, { x, y })]).size > 0;
  };

  const moveTo = async (inputX: number, inputY: number) => {
    if (!playerEntity) {
      throw new Error("no player");
    }

    const [x, y] = wrapPosition(inputX, inputY);
    if (isObstructed(x, y)) {
      console.warn("cannot move to obstructed space");
      return;
    }

    const positionId = uuid();
    Position.addOverride(positionId, {
      entity: playerEntity,
      value: { x, y },
    });

    try {
      const tx = await worldSend("move", [x, y]);
      await awaitStreamValue(txReduced$, (txHash) => txHash === tx.hash);
    } finally {
      Position.removeOverride(positionId);
    }
  };

  const moveBy = async (deltaX: number, deltaY: number) => {
    if (!playerEntity) {
      throw new Error("no player");
    }

    const playerPosition = getComponentValue(Position, playerEntity);
    if (!playerPosition) {
      console.warn("cannot moveBy without a player position, not yet spawned?");
      return;
    }

    await moveTo(playerPosition.x + deltaX, playerPosition.y + deltaY);
  };

  const spawn = async (inputX: number, inputY: number) => {
    if (!playerEntity) {
      throw new Error("no player");
    }

    const canSpawn = getComponentValue(Player, playerEntity)?.value !== true;
    if (!canSpawn) {
      throw new Error("already spawned");
    }

    const [x, y] = wrapPosition(inputX, inputY);
    if (isObstructed(x, y)) {
      console.warn("cannot spawn on obstructed space");
      return;
    }

    const positionId = uuid();
    Position.addOverride(positionId, {
      entity: playerEntity,
      value: { x, y },
    });
    const playerId = uuid();
    Player.addOverride(playerId, {
      entity: playerEntity,
      value: { value: true },
    });

    try {
      const tx = await worldSend("spawn", [x, y]);
      await awaitStreamValue(txReduced$, (txHash) => txHash === tx.hash);
    } finally {
      Position.removeOverride(positionId);
      Player.removeOverride(playerId);
    }
  };
```

Now try moving onto a tile with a boulder and you’ll see that you can’t.

## 2.4 Constrain movement

You may notice two quirks of the way we've implemented movement so far—players can move off of the bounds of the map and they may move more than one space at a time by clicking. We're going to fix those with some changes to systems and methods.

### Constrain position to map size

First we're going to update the move method to wrap the player coordinate around the map size.

```solidity
function move(uint32 x, uint32 y) public {
  bytes32 player = addressToEntityKey(_msgSender());
  require(Movable.get(player), "cannot move");

  (uint32 fromX, uint32 fromY) = Position.get(player);
  require(distance(fromX, fromY, x, y) == 1, "can only move to adjacent spaces");

  // Constrain position to map size, wrapping around if necessary
  (uint32 width, uint32 height, ) = MapConfig.get();
  x = (x + width) % width;
  y = (y + height) % height;

  Position.set(player, x, y);
}
```

Next we'll ensure that users spawn within the confines of the map by updating the spawn method.

```solidity
function spawn(uint32 x, uint32 y) public {
  bytes32 player = addressToEntityKey(address(_msgSender()));
  require(!Player.get(player), "already spawned");

  // Constrain position to map size, wrapping around if necessary
  (uint32 width, uint32 height, ) = MapConfig.get();
  x = (x + width) % width;
  y = (y + height) % height;

  Player.set(player, true);
  Position.set(player, x, y);
  Movable.set(player, true);
}
```

Let’s also make sure these are rendering optimistically in the same way that movement and spawning currently are.

```tsx
const wrapPosition = (x: number, y: number) => {
  const mapConfig = getComponentValue(MapConfig, singletonEntity);
  if (!mapConfig) {
    throw new Error("mapConfig no yet loaded or initialized");
  }
  return [
    (x + mapConfig.width) % mapConfig.width,
    (y + mapConfig.height) % mapConfig.height,
  ];
};

const moveTo = async (inputX: number, inputY: number) => {
  if (!playerEntity) {
    throw new Error("no player");
  }

  const [x, y] = wrapPosition(inputX, inputY);

  const positionId = uuid();
  Position.addOverride(positionId, {
    entity: playerEntity,
    value: { x, y },
  });

  try {
    const tx = await worldSend("move", [x, y]);
    await awaitStreamValue(txReduced$, (txHash) => txHash === tx.hash);
  } finally {
    Position.removeOverride(positionId);
  }
};

...

const spawn = async (inputX: number, inputY: number) => {
  if (!playerEntity) {
    throw new Error("no player");
  }

  const canSpawn = getComponentValue(Player, playerEntity)?.value !== true;
  if (!canSpawn) {
    throw new Error("already spawned");
  }

  const [x, y] = wrapPosition(inputX, inputY);
```

Commit message:

docs: add filenames to many sections for clearer directions, other minor edits (#921)
* docs: add filenames to many sections for clearer directions, other minor edits

* Update docs/pages/tutorials/emojimon/a-wild-emojimon-appears.mdx

* Update docs/pages/tutorials/emojimon/map-and-terrain.mdx

* Update docs/pages/tutorials/emojimon/a-wild-emojimon-appears.mdx

* Update docs/pages/tutorials/emojimon/map-and-terrain.mdx

* Update docs/pages/tutorials/emojimon/players-and-movement.mdx

* fix whitespace

* more file extensions

* Update docs/pages/tutorials/emojimon/map-and-terrain.mdx

---------

Co-authored-by: Kevin Ingersoll <kingersoll@gmail.com>

docs/pages/tutorials/emojimon/map-and-terrain.mdx, after:

# Map and terrain

**In this section, we will accomplish the following:**

1. Configure the map as a singleton table and initialize it in the client.
2. Add terrain (tall grass and boulders) to the map.
3. Prevent movement with boulders.

## 2.1 Use singleton tables for the map config

At this point we have the concept of a 2D grid but there is no official "map" and there is no terrain. In order to do so in the ECS model we will now implement the tables as a [singleton table](/store/advanced-features#singleton-table) and initialize it in the client. Put simply, singleton tables are tables with a single record. They don’t have keys and are quite useful to store top-level state.

Go ahead and add the `MapConfig` as a singleton table in the MUD config (`mud.config.ts`).

```tsx
import { mudConfig } from "@latticexyz/world/register";

export default mudConfig({
  enums: {
    TerrainType: ["None", "TallGrass", "Boulder"],
  },
  tables: {
    MapConfig: {
      keySchema: {},
      dataStruct: false,
      schema: {
        width: "uint32",
        height: "uint32",
        terrain: "bytes",
      },
    },
    Movable: "bool",
    Player: "bool",
    Position: {
      dataStruct: false,
      schema: {
        x: "uint32",
        y: "uint32",
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## 2.2 Add terrain

There are two features we have yet to implement—boulders to obstruct movement and tall grass to generate encounters. Before we start setting up the components and systems necessary to do so we must first add the terrain itself and render them in the client.

First, we’ll use the `PostDeploy.s.sol` to initialize the client with the terrain.

```tsx
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity >=0.8.0;

import { Script } from "forge-std/Script.sol";
import { console } from "forge-std/console.sol";
import { IWorld } from "../src/codegen/world/IWorld.sol";
import { MapConfig, Obstruction, Position } from "../src/codegen/Tables.sol";
import { TerrainType } from "../src/codegen/Types.sol";

contract PostDeploy is Script {
  function run(address worldAddress) external {
    console.log("Deployed world: ", worldAddress);
    IWorld world = IWorld(worldAddress);

    uint256 deployerPrivateKey = vm.envUint("PRIVATE_KEY");
    vm.startBroadcast(deployerPrivateKey);

    TerrainType O = TerrainType.None;
    TerrainType T = TerrainType.TallGrass;
    TerrainType B = TerrainType.Boulder;

    TerrainType[20][20] memory map = [
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, T, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O],
      [O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, T, O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, B, O, O],
      [O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, B, O, O, T, O, B, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, O, O, O, O, T, T, T, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, T, T, O, B, T, O, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, B, O, O, O, B, O, O, T, T, O, B, O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, B, O, O, O, T, O, T, T, O, O, B, T, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, B, O, T, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, B, O, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, B, B, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, T, B, O, O, O, T, T, O, B, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, T, O, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O]
    ];

    uint32 height = uint32(map.length);
    uint32 width = uint32(map[0].length);
    bytes memory terrain = new bytes(width * height);

    for (uint32 y = 0; y < height; y++) {
      for (uint32 x = 0; x < width; x++) {
        TerrainType terrainType = map[y][x];
        if (terrainType == TerrainType.None) continue;

        terrain[(y * width) + x] = bytes1(uint8(terrainType));
      }
    }

    MapConfig.set(world, width, height, terrain);

    vm.stopBroadcast();
  }
}
```

Now let’s render the terrrain in the client via `GameBoard.tsx`.

```tsx
import { useComponentValue } from "@latticexyz/react";
import { GameMap } from "./GameMap";
import { useMUD } from "./MUDContext";
import { useKeyboardMovement } from "./useKeyboardMovement";
import { hexToArray } from "@latticexyz/utils";
import { TerrainType, terrainTypes } from "./terrainTypes";

export const GameBoard = () => {
  useKeyboardMovement();

  const {
    components: { MapConfig, Player, Position },
    network: { playerEntity, singletonEntity },
    systemCalls: { spawn },
  } = useMUD();

  const canSpawn = useComponentValue(Player, playerEntity)?.value !== true;

  const playerPosition = useComponentValue(Position, playerEntity);
  const player =
    playerEntity && playerPosition
      ? {
          x: playerPosition.x,
          y: playerPosition.y,
          emoji: "🤠",
          entity: playerEntity,
        }
      : null;

  const mapConfig = useComponentValue(MapConfig, singletonEntity);
  if (mapConfig == null) {
    throw new Error("map config not set or not ready, only use this hook after loading state === LIVE");
  }

  const { width, height, terrain: terrainData } = mapConfig;
  const terrain = Array.from(hexToArray(terrainData)).map((value, index) => {
    const { emoji } = value in TerrainType ? terrainTypes[value as TerrainType] : { emoji: "" };
    return {
      x: index % width,
      y: Math.floor(index / width),
      emoji,
    };
  });

  return (
    <GameMap
      width={width}
      height={height}
      terrain={terrain}
      onTileClick={canSpawn ? spawn : undefined}
      players={player ? [player] : []}
    />
  );
};
```

## 2.3 Turn boulders into obstructions

Although boulders are now rendering on the map at this point, they do not yet prevent movement in the way we want them to. To accomplish this we will add an `Obstruction` table and query for entities with that table in our move method.

Let's start by adding the table to the MUD config:

```tsx
import { mudConfig } from "@latticexyz/world/register";

export default mudConfig({
  enums: {
    TerrainType: ["None", "TallGrass", "Boulder"],
  },
  tables: {
    MapConfig: {
      keySchema: {},
      dataStruct: false,
      schema: {
        width: "uint32",
        height: "uint32",
        terrain: "bytes",
      },
    },
    Movable: "bool",
    Obstruction: "bool",
    Player: "bool",
    Position: {
      dataStruct: false,
      schema: {
        x: "uint32",
        y: "uint32",
      },
    },
  },
});
```

We'll then make sure `PostDeploy.s.sol` initializes the boulders properly (with the obstruction and position component) so we can query them later.

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity >=0.8.0;

import { Script } from "forge-std/Script.sol";
import { console } from "forge-std/console.sol";
import { IWorld } from "../src/codegen/world/IWorld.sol";
import { MapConfig, Obstruction, Position } from "../src/codegen/Tables.sol";
import { TerrainType } from "../src/codegen/Types.sol";
import { positionToEntityKey } from "../src/positionToEntityKey.sol";

contract PostDeploy is Script {
  function run(address worldAddress) external {
    console.log("Deployed world: ", worldAddress);
    IWorld world = IWorld(worldAddress);

    uint256 deployerPrivateKey = vm.envUint("PRIVATE_KEY");
    vm.startBroadcast(deployerPrivateKey);

    TerrainType O = TerrainType.None;
    TerrainType T = TerrainType.TallGrass;
    TerrainType B = TerrainType.Boulder;

    TerrainType[20][20] memory map = [
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, T, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O],
      [O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, T, O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, B, O, O],
      [O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, B, O, O, T, O, B, O, O, O],
      [O, O, T, O, O, O, O, T, T, T, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, O, T, T, T, O, B, T, O, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, B, O, O, O, B, O, O, T, T, O, B, O, O, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, B, O, O, O, T, O, T, T, O, O, B, T, T, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, B, O, T, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, B, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, B, O, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, B, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, B, B, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, T, B, O, O, O, T, T, O, B, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, T, O, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, T, T, T, T, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O],
      [O, O, O, O, O, T, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O]
    ];

    uint32 height = uint32(map.length);
    uint32 width = uint32(map[0].length);
    bytes memory terrain = new bytes(width * height);

    for (uint32 y = 0; y < height; y++) {
      for (uint32 x = 0; x < width; x++) {
        TerrainType terrainType = map[y][x];
        if (terrainType == TerrainType.None) continue;

        terrain[(y * width) + x] = bytes1(uint8(terrainType));

        bytes32 entity = positionToEntityKey(x, y);
        if (terrainType == TerrainType.Boulder) {
          Position.set(world, entity, x, y);
          Obstruction.set(world, entity, true);
        }
      }
    }

    MapConfig.set(world, width, height, terrain);

    vm.stopBroadcast();
  }
}
```

Then let's use this function in the move method and spawn method in `MapSystem.sol`.

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity >=0.8.0;
import { System } from "@latticexyz/world/src/System.sol";
import { MapConfig, Movable, Obstruction, Player, Position } from "../codegen/Tables.sol";
import { addressToEntityKey } from "../addressToEntityKey.sol";
import { positionToEntityKey } from "../positionToEntityKey.sol";

contract MapSystem is System {
  function spawn(uint32 x, uint32 y) public {
    bytes32 player = addressToEntityKey(address(_msgSender()));
    require(!Player.get(player), "already spawned");

    // Constrain position to map size, wrapping around if necessary
    (uint32 width, uint32 height, ) = MapConfig.get();
    x = (x + width) % width;
    y = (y + height) % height;

    bytes32 position = positionToEntityKey(x, y);
    require(!Obstruction.get(position), "this space is obstructed");

    Player.set(player, true);
    Position.set(player, x, y);
    Movable.set(player, true);
  }

  function move(uint32 x, uint32 y) public {
    bytes32 player = addressToEntityKey(_msgSender());
    require(Movable.get(player), "cannot move");

    (uint32 fromX, uint32 fromY) = Position.get(player);
    require(distance(fromX, fromY, x, y) == 1, "can only move to adjacent spaces");

    bytes32 position = positionToEntityKey(x, y);
    require(!Obstruction.get(position), "this space is obstructed");

    // Constrain position to map size, wrapping around if necessary
    (uint32 width, uint32 height, ) = MapConfig.get();
    x = (x + width) % width;
    y = (y + height) % height;

    Position.set(player, x, y);
  }

  function distance(uint32 fromX, uint32 fromY, uint32 toX, uint32 toY) internal pure returns (uint32) {
    uint32 deltaX = fromX > toX ? fromX - toX : toX - fromX;
    uint32 deltaY = fromY > toY ? fromY - toY : toY - fromY;
    return deltaX + deltaY;
  }
}
```

Lastly, let's ensure these interactions are optimistically rendering in the `createSystemCalls.ts` method.

```tsx
export function createSystemCalls(
  { playerEntity, singletonEntity, worldSend, txReduced$ }: SetupNetworkResult,
  { MapConfig, Obstruction, Player, Position }: ClientComponents
) {
  const wrapPosition = (x: number, y: number) => {
    const mapConfig = getComponentValue(MapConfig, singletonEntity);
    if (!mapConfig) {
      throw new Error("mapConfig no yet loaded or initialized");
    }
    return [
      (x + mapConfig.width) % mapConfig.width,
      (y + mapConfig.height) % mapConfig.height,
    ];
  };

  const isObstructed = (x: number, y: number) => {
    return runQuery([Has(Obstruction), HasValue(Position, { x, y })]).size > 0;
  };

  const moveTo = async (inputX: number, inputY: number) => {
    if (!playerEntity) {
      throw new Error("no player");
    }

    const [x, y] = wrapPosition(inputX, inputY);
    if (isObstructed(x, y)) {
      console.warn("cannot move to obstructed space");
      return;
    }

    const positionId = uuid();
    Position.addOverride(positionId, {
      entity: playerEntity,
      value: { x, y },
    });

    try {
      const tx = await worldSend("move", [x, y]);
      await awaitStreamValue(txReduced$, (txHash) => txHash === tx.hash);
    } finally {
      Position.removeOverride(positionId);
    }
  };

  const moveBy = async (deltaX: number, deltaY: number) => {
    if (!playerEntity) {
      throw new Error("no player");
    }

    const playerPosition = getComponentValue(Position, playerEntity);
    if (!playerPosition) {
      console.warn("cannot moveBy without a player position, not yet spawned?");
      return;
    }

    await moveTo(playerPosition.x + deltaX, playerPosition.y + deltaY);
  };

  const spawn = async (inputX: number, inputY: number) => {
    if (!playerEntity) {
      throw new Error("no player");
    }

    const canSpawn = getComponentValue(Player, playerEntity)?.value !== true;
    if (!canSpawn) {
      throw new Error("already spawned");
    }

    const [x, y] = wrapPosition(inputX, inputY);
    if (isObstructed(x, y)) {
      console.warn("cannot spawn on obstructed space");
      return;
    }

    const positionId = uuid();
    Position.addOverride(positionId, {
      entity: playerEntity,
      value: { x, y },
    });
    const playerId = uuid();
    Player.addOverride(playerId, {
      entity: playerEntity,
      value: { value: true },
    });

    try {
      const tx = await worldSend("spawn", [x, y]);
      await awaitStreamValue(txReduced$, (txHash) => txHash === tx.hash);
    } finally {
      Position.removeOverride(positionId);
      Player.removeOverride(playerId);
    }
  };
```

Now if you try moving onto a tile with a boulder you’ll see that you can’t!

## 2.4 Constrain movement

You may notice two quirks of the way we've implemented movement so far—players can move off of the bounds of the map and they may move more than one space at a time by clicking. We're going to fix those with some changes to systems and methods.

First we're going to update the move method in `MapSystem.sol` to wrap the player coordinate around the map size.

```solidity
function move(uint32 x, uint32 y) public {
  bytes32 player = addressToEntityKey(_msgSender());
  require(Movable.get(player), "cannot move");

  (uint32 fromX, uint32 fromY) = Position.get(player);
  require(distance(fromX, fromY, x, y) == 1, "can only move to adjacent spaces");

  // Constrain position to map size, wrapping around if necessary
  (uint32 width, uint32 height, ) = MapConfig.get();
  x = (x + width) % width;
  y = (y + height) % height;

  Position.set(player, x, y);
}
```

Next we'll ensure that users spawn within the confines of the map by updating the spawn method in `MapSystem.sol`.

```solidity
function spawn(uint32 x, uint32 y) public {
  bytes32 player = addressToEntityKey(address(_msgSender()));
  require(!Player.get(player), "already spawned");

  // Constrain position to map size, wrapping around if necessary
  (uint32 width, uint32 height, ) = MapConfig.get();
  x = (x + width) % width;
  y = (y + height) % height;

  Player.set(player, true);
  Position.set(player, x, y);
  Movable.set(player, true);
}
```

Let’s go back to `createSystemCalls.ts` to make sure these are rendering optimistically in the same way that movement and spawning currently are.

```tsx
const wrapPosition = (x: number, y: number) => {
  const mapConfig = getComponentValue(MapConfig, singletonEntity);
  if (!mapConfig) {
    throw new Error("mapConfig no yet loaded or initialized");
  }
  return [
    (x + mapConfig.width) % mapConfig.width,
    (y + mapConfig.height) % mapConfig.height,
  ];
};

const moveTo = async (inputX: number, inputY: number) => {
  if (!playerEntity) {
    throw new Error("no player");
  }

  const [x, y] = wrapPosition(inputX, inputY);

  const positionId = uuid();
  Position.addOverride(positionId, {
    entity: playerEntity,
    value: { x, y },
  });

  try {
    const tx = await worldSend("move", [x, y]);
    await awaitStreamValue(txReduced$, (txHash) => txHash === tx.hash);
  } finally {
    Position.removeOverride(positionId);
  }
};

...

const spawn = async (inputX: number, inputY: number) => {
  if (!playerEntity) {
    throw new Error("no player");
  }

  const canSpawn = getComponentValue(Player, playerEntity)?.value !== true;
  if (!canSpawn) {
    throw new Error("already spawned");
  }

  const [x, y] = wrapPosition(inputX, inputY);
```
