docs/pages/store/using-without-world.mdx, before:

import { Aside } from "../../components/Aside";

## Using Store without World

### Installation

<Aside emoji="⚠️">
  If you use the MUD framework, you don’t have to install Store into your contract. Each World automatically comes with
  a Store. This *Installation* section is meant to be for developers who **do not** use the MUD framework and the MUD
  World.
</Aside>

Install `@latticexyz/store` via NPM or Yarn, and add the correct remapping into your Forge config.

If you store your contracts in `packages/contract`, this would look like this:

```solidity
// remappings.txt
@latticexyz/=./node_modules/@latticexyz/
```

If you want to use code-generation for libraries, install the MUD cli: `yarn install -D mud` and the schema types: `yarn install -D @latticexyz/schema-type`

Import Store and extend your contract with the `Store` contract:

```solidity
// src/Contract.sol
import { Store } from "@latticexyz/store/src/Store.sol";
contract Contract is Store {
	[...]
}
```

Inheriting `Store` will bootstrap the internal tables in the contract’s constructor. You can initialize default tables in your contract constructor if needed.

### Initializing tables in the constructor with code-generated librarie

create a MUD config at the root of your project named `mud.config.mts`

```tsx
// mud.config.mts
import { mudConfig } from "@latticexyz/store/register";

export default mudConfig({
  tables: {
    MyTable: {
      schema: {
        field1: "uint256",
        field2: "uint256",
      },
    },
  },
});

export default config;
```

Then run `mud tablegen` in the folder where your MUD config is located. It will output a single library: `MyTable.sol` at `./src/tables/MyTable.sol`

```solidity
import { Store } from "@latticexyz/store/src/Store.sol";
import { MyTable } from "./codegen/tables/MyTable.sol";

contract Contract is Store {
  constructor() {
    MyTable.registerSchema();
    // Setting metadata is optional. It helps off-chain actors name columns
    MyTable.setMetadata();
  }
}
```

<Aside emoji="ℹ️">
  the output directory of the library depends on your Foundry `src` directory and the optional `directory` property in
  the table object of your config. The file name will always be the table name in the config.
</Aside>

### Initializing tables in the constructor with the low-level API

```solidity
import { Store } from "@latticexyz/store/src/Store.sol";
import { StoreCore } from "@latticexyz/store/src/StoreCore.sol";

contract Contract is Store {
  constructor() {
    Schema keySchema = SchemaLib.encode(SchemaType.UINT256);
    Schema schema = SchemaLib.encode(SchemaType.UINT256, SchemaType.UINT256);
    uint256 table = uint256(keccak256("MyTable"));
    StoreCore.registerSchema(table, schema, keySchema);
    // Setting metadata is optional. It helps off-chain actors name columns
    string[] memory fieldNames = new string[](2);
    fieldNames[0] = "field1";
    fieldNames[1] = "field2";
    StoreSwitch.setMetadata(table, "MyTable", fieldNames);
  }
}
```

Commit message:

docs: document cli better (#872)
* docs: clean up and remove mts + references to yarn. add pnpm prefix to cli calls.

* docs: more cleanup

* docs: more example for the cli

* Update docs/pages/store/using-without-world.mdx

Co-authored-by: Kevin Ingersoll <kingersoll@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Kevin Ingersoll <kingersoll@gmail.com>

docs/pages/store/using-without-world.mdx, after:

import { Aside } from "../../components/Aside";

## Using Store without World

### Installation

<Aside emoji="⚠️">
  If you use the MUD framework, you don’t have to install Store into your contract. Each World automatically comes with
  a Store. This *Installation* section is meant to be for developers who **do not** use the MUD framework and the MUD
  World.
</Aside>

Install `@latticexyz/store` via npm, pnpm, or Yarn, and add the correct remapping into your Forge config.

If you store your contracts in `packages/contract`, this would look like this:

```solidity
// remappings.txt
@latticexyz/=./node_modules/@latticexyz/
```

If you want to use code-generation for libraries, install the MUD cli: `pnpm install -D mud` and the store config package: `pnpm install -D @latticexyz/store`

Import Store and extend your contract with the `Store` contract:

```solidity
// src/Contract.sol
import { Store } from "@latticexyz/store/src/Store.sol";
contract Contract is Store {
	[...]
}
```

Inheriting `Store` will bootstrap the internal tables in the contract’s constructor. You can initialize default tables in your contract constructor if needed.

### Initializing tables in the constructor with code-generated librarie

create a MUD config at the root of your project named `mud.config.ts`

```tsx
// mud.config.ts
import { mudConfig } from "@latticexyz/store/register";

export default mudConfig({
  tables: {
    MyTable: {
      schema: {
        field1: "uint256",
        field2: "uint256",
      },
    },
  },
});

export default config;
```

Then run `pnpm mud tablegen` in the folder where your MUD config is located. It will output a single library: `MyTable.sol` at `./src/tables/MyTable.sol`

```solidity
import { Store } from "@latticexyz/store/src/Store.sol";
import { MyTable } from "./codegen/tables/MyTable.sol";

contract Contract is Store {
  constructor() {
    MyTable.registerSchema();
    // Setting metadata is optional. It helps off-chain actors name columns
    MyTable.setMetadata();
  }
}
```

<Aside emoji="ℹ️">
  the output directory of the library depends on your Foundry `src` directory and the optional `directory` property in
  the table object of your config. The file name will always be the table name in the config.
</Aside>

### Initializing tables in the constructor with the low-level API

```solidity
import { Store } from "@latticexyz/store/src/Store.sol";
import { StoreCore } from "@latticexyz/store/src/StoreCore.sol";

contract Contract is Store {
  constructor() {
    Schema keySchema = SchemaLib.encode(SchemaType.UINT256);
    Schema schema = SchemaLib.encode(SchemaType.UINT256, SchemaType.UINT256);
    uint256 table = uint256(keccak256("MyTable"));
    StoreCore.registerSchema(table, schema, keySchema);
    // Setting metadata is optional. It helps off-chain actors name columns
    string[] memory fieldNames = new string[](2);
    fieldNames[0] = "field1";
    fieldNames[1] = "field2";
    StoreSwitch.setMetadata(table, "MyTable", fieldNames);
  }
}
```
